Revelation chapter 7 verse 9 speaks of a great crowd composed of many tongues, or as the
foodnot reads, languages.
This Bible prophecy has taken on new meaning in the past century of Kingdom Rule, with
translation now taking place in over 700 languages.
Many of these languages are operating from remote translation offices or RTOs.
One example is the country of Mozambique.
These offices are located in the area where the language is spoken rather than at the
branch.
Remote translation office guidelines outline how the branch committee works along with
the writing committee, publishing committee, translation services, and the worldwide design
construction department in considering relocating or starting a translation team in a remote
location.
RTOs are presently functioning in different ways in various parts of the world.
At times, the personnel live in one location and work in another.
This includes using full-time and part-time commuters for both translation and support services.
The standard of facilities provided or the operation of the RTO may not be the same as the local
branch.
At times, the fastest way to start operation is to rent or purchase existing facilities
and if needed, carry out renovation work.
For example, this method was used to acquire the housing units for the American Sign Language
RTO in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
If building a new RTO with the only option in an area, the standard plans have been developed
for use.
RTOs and servants work along with the regional design construction departments in planning
a project and then traveling to the chosen location and working along with local construction
servants and volunteers in building the RTO.
RTO construction gives both the local brothers and construction workers the joy of knowing
they also are playing a part in reaching the hearts of people in their language.
The positive results in constructing RTOs is experience about those involved in their
construction and those who translate from them.
We just love the project.
The RTO family is so much fun to work with, it's a small family and so as we're caring
for the needs of each other throughout the days and the weeks and the months, we just
really find a lot of joy in it.
It's been a ton of fun and we get to do it all in the shadow of a palm tree.
The greatest joy is that our brothers give up their energy and above all, they work
with much happiness for Jehovah.
Our recent relocation to the RTO home and office will fit so many of our translation needs
going forward.
It helps us to hear and to speak the language every day because we use it in the ministry
and as meetings, so that helps us to translate in a way our audience can easily understand.
When you go out in the ministry, you'll find that there are so many different ways
something can be said, so you can have flavor in your translation work as well.
Attending a congregation meeting with so many deaf really helps with translation.
Being in the audience when the information is presented at the meetings, a translator
can see by the facial expressions of those around him if the information is clear and understandable.
Saying them comment gives us an insight into whether they really understand.
In just the last few years, over 300 RTOs have been established worldwide.
We have a head of us plans for over 100 RTOs to be established in the next few years.
Jehovah is truly blessing this work so that people of all languages in the most distant
parts of the earth may come to know him.